Git Basics

1) Clone a Repository:

To clone a repository use the following command:

    git clone <Repository URL>

To clone a branch in git repository use the following command:

    git clone -b <branch> <Repository URL>

Whenever you clone a master branch(default as in first case) or a branch (second case) you are checked out to it.

2) Checkout a branch:

You can switch between branches using the following command

    git checkout <branchname>
    
To see you are currently on which branch use:

    git status 
    
3) Create a  new branch

You can create a new branch by giving the following command:
  
    git checkout -b <branch_name>
 
 When you run above command you will create a new branch and check out to it.
 To create a new branch you should be present on the correct parent branch.
 
 4) Commiting in git:
 
 Before you can commit a new file in git you must add the file in the staging area by running the follwoing command:
 
    git add filename
 
 Once the file is added to the staging area you can commit the changes by running the following command:
 
   git commit -m "message"
   
 Commiting files this way doesn't commits the file on the git central repository, it just commits it locally.
 
 
 5) Push Changes to the repository:
 
    git push origin master
    
    OR if you want to push changes to a particular branch use:
    
    git push origin <branch name>
    
 6) Git pull:
 
 You can use git pull command to synchronize your local repo with central git repository.
 
 7) git rename a branch
 
 You need to follow the below steps to rename a branch:
 A. Rename your local branch.
    If you are on the branch you want to rename:

        git branch -m new-name
    
B. Delete the old-name remote branch and push the new-name local branch.

        git push origin :old-name new-name
        
C. Reset the upstream branch for the new-name local branch.
Switch to the branch and then:

        git push origin -u new-name

 
 8) git merge 
Follow the below steps if you want to merge the changes done in QA branch to DEV branch:

    git checkout DEV (you will switch to branch DEV)
    git merge QA (this will merge all changes from branch QA into DEV branch)
    git commit -a (this will commit your changes)


 
 test
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
